------------------------------
https://github.com/vilasvarghese/docker-k8s/tree/master/notes/day3
-----------------------------









docker will hwork on kernal.......so if we did something on kernal it will run on every os and software
dnf.
yes..is is possible to work docker on windows ..beacuse its having wsl...but 

but docker only work with linux...internlly its running in the linux only in windows
Q.. (how do u create windows realed containers..if we are its running in the linux)



archi:  (bashmetal)
application
depemdecsies--------lib bin
kernal
hardware



hypervisor

hypervison
kernal(optional)..(why means hypervisor having os ntg but independent kernal )
hardware

vagrent??--used to create a virtual machine

start vm there are snapshots(current situation snap)--like prtable also..we can take this and run int another machine it will run

alwasy conatiner created from image..from one image we can create any number of conatiners.



docker image------------------------>dokcer conainer 1
            ------------------------->docker conatiener 2


docker images--are readonly
but when create a container from snapshot..so conatiner we can edit..but snapshot we cant edit it only read only


....
docker version--cleint and server having

server is deman
cleint used to talk with deman ..like rest apis ..deman will check 
\

..
cinatiners always created from image
...

image -
    image can be local(when are are creating a conatiner iw till first llok in to local if its not there then it will look outside like (docker hub) and get it) 
                 remote(0docker hub)


if the image is not local it will be not created conatiners

if it in remote then first have to download the image in locally and then create..


....


deman is responsible to run the conatiner.,....and also check it presnt localy or not images

.......      

doc archi--
network, image, data volumes, containers

---

docker lifecycle--

from docker file we can create the image

---docker file???

dokcer file having the docker syntax with that we are trying to create the docker image.(its like the pythom code not pythonit follwos the dokcer syntax).

.....

docker run hellow-world(run the contaimer..if image is not there create and run)

docker ps -a(to see)

but it got excuted and exit why



...
docker--exited
linux--exited
ngnix--not




docker -d run ngix  (-d Detachment)


..to get in side the container and run
docker run -it ubuntu bash  (run will create a new conatiner)


--
docker run ubuntu ps -ef (ps -ef is runing in side the container so only one peorcess)


docekr ps--only running
ps -a --running and stopped also





2 vms how to differentiate

cgrops
1. file system
2. network like ip port
3. hostname
4. users
5. processes
6. inter process communication vs rpc


kill -9 pid


When to Use docker attach?
✅ To monitor logs in real-time (without running docker logs -f).
✅ To interact with an application running inside the container.
✅ To reconnect to a detached interactive session.

 What Does docker commit Do?
The docker commit command creates a new Docker image from an existing running or stopped container. This allows you to save changes made inside a container and reuse them later.

...

what ever we exectured in machine..it executed as the process







*********
overlay
//imp linux cmds

sed
regular expression
awk
grep
tr
find



practice



docker build -t imagname -f filename .
docker run -it my-image bash  (the image name we have given)

dokcer tag my-image username/my-image:latest (latest is tag name)
docker push username/imagename:tag